III.
Busy at War and Love.
Tom presented himself before Aunt Polly, who was sitting by an open
window in a pleasant rearward apartment which was bedroom, breakfast
dining-room, and library combined. The balmy summer air, the restful
quiet, the odour of the flowers, and the drowsing murmur of the bees
had had their effect, and she was nodding over her knitting, for she
had no company but the cat, and it was asleep in her lap.
Her spectacles were propped up on her grey head for safety. She had
thought that of course Tom had deserted long ago, and she wondered at
him place himself in her power again, in this intrepid way. He said,--"Meant
I go and play now, Aunt?"--"What,
already? How much have you done?"--"It's
all done, Aunt."--"Tom,
don't lie to me. I can't bear it."--"I ain't,
Aunt. It is all done." Aunt Polly placed small
trust in such evidence. She went out to see for herself, and she would
have been content to find twenty per cent of
Tom's statement true. When she found the entire fence whitewashed, and
not only whitewashed, but elaborately coated and recoated, and even a
streak added to the ground, her astonishment was almost unspeakable. She
said,--"Well, I never. There's no getting round it. You can work when
you're a-mind to, Tom." And then she diluted the compliment by adding,--"But
it's powerful seldom you're a-mind to, I'm bound to say. Well, go
along and play. But mind you get back some time in the week, or I'll
tan you."
She was so overcome by the splendour of his achievement that she took
him into the closet and selected a choice apple and delivered it to him,
along with an improving lecture upon the added value and flavour a treat
took to itself when it came without sin through virtuous effort. And
while she closed with a happy scriptural flourish, he hooked a doughnut.
Then he skipped out and saw Sid just starting up the outside stairway
that led to the back rooms on the second floor. Clods were handy, and
the air was full of them in a twinkling. They raged around Sid like a
hailstorm, and before Aunt Polly could collect her surprised faculties
and Sally to the rescue, six or seven clods had taken personal effect,
and Tom was over the fence and gone. There was a gate, but as a general
thing he was too crowded for time to make use of it. His soul was at
peace, now that he had settled with Sid for calling attention to his
black thread and getting him into trouble. Tom skirted the block and came
round into a muddy alley that led by the back of his aunt's cow-stable.
He presently got safely beyond the reach of capture and punishment and
hastened towards the public square of the village, where two military
companies of boys had met for conflict according to previous appointment.
Tom was general of one of these armies, Joe Harper, a bosom friend,
general of the other. These two great commanders did not condescend to
fight in person, that being better suited to the still smaller fry, but
sat together on an eminence and conducted the field operations by
orders delivered through aide-de-camp. Tom's army won a great victory
after a long and hard-fought battle. Then the dead were counted,
prisoners exchanged, the terms of the next disagreement agreed upon, and
the day for the necessary battle appointed. After which the armies fell
into line and marched away, and Tom turned homeward alone.
As he was passing by the house where Jeff Thatcher lived, he saw a new
girl in the garden, a lovely little blue-eyed creature with yellow hair
plaited into two long tails, white summer frock, and embroidered
pantilettes. The fresh-crowned hero fell without firing a shot. A
certain Amy Lawrence vanished out of his heart and left not even a
memory of herself behind. He had thought he loved her to distraction.
He had regarded his passion as adoration, and, behold, it was only a
poor little evanescent partiality. He had been months winning her, she
had confessed hardly a week ago. He had been the happiest and the
loudest boy in the world only seven short days, and here in one
instant of time she had gone out of his heart like a casual stranger
whose visit is done. He worshipped this new angel with furtive eye, till
he saw that she had discovered him. Then he pretended he did not know
she was present, and began to show off in all sorts of absurd boyish
ways in order to win her admiration. He kept up this grotesque
foolishness for some time, but by and by, while he was in the midst of
some dangerous gymnastic performances, he glanced aside and saw that
the little girl was wending her way toward the house. Tom came up to
the fence and leaned on it, grieving and hoping she would tarry yet a
while longer. She halted a moment on the steps and then moved toward
the door. Tom heaved a great sigh as she put her foot on the threshold.
But his face lit up right away, for she tossed a pansy over the fence a
moment before she disappeared.
The boy ran around and stopped within a foot or two of the flower, and
then shaded his eyes with his hand and began to look down street as if
he had discovered something of interest going on in that direction.
Presently he picked up a straw and began trying to balance it on his
nose, with his head tilted far back, and as he moved from side to side
in his efforts he edged nearer and nearer toward the pansy. Finally his
bare foot rested upon it, his pliant toes closed upon it, and he hopped
away with a treasure and disappeared round the corner. But only for a
minute, only while he could button the flower inside his jacket next
to his heart—or next to his stomach, possibly, for he was not much
posted in anatomy, and not hypercritical, anyway.
He returned now and hung about the fence till nightfall, showing off,
as before, but the girl never exhibited herself again, though Tom
comforted himself a little with the hope that she had been near some
window meantime and been aware of his attentions. Finally he rode home
reluctantly with his poor head full of visions.
All through supper his spirits were so high that his aunt wondered what
had got into the child. He took a good scolding about clotting Sid, and
did not seem to mind it in the least. He tried to steal sugar under his
aunt's very nose and got his knuckles wrapped for it. He said,
"'Aunt, you don't whack Sid when he takes it.' Well, Sid, don't torment
a body the way you do. You'd be always into that sugar if I weren't
watching you.' Presently she stepped into the kitchen, and Sid, happy in
his immunity, reached for the sugar bowl, a sort of glorying over Tom,
which was well nigh unbearable. But Sid's fingers slipped, and the bowl
dropped and broke. Tom was in ecstasies—in such ecstasies that he even
controlled his tongue and was silent. He said to himself that he would
not speak a word, even when his aunt came in, but would sit perfectly
still till she asked who did the mischief, and then he would tell, and
there would be nothing so good in the world as to see that pet model
catch it. He was so brimful of exultation that he could hardly hold
himself when the old lady came back and stood above the wreck discharging
lightnings of wrath from over her spectacles. He said to himself, "'Now
it's coming,' and the next instant he was sprawling on the floor. The
potent palm was uplifted to strike again when Tom cried out, "'Hold on
now! What are you belting me for? Sid broke it!' Aunt Polly paused,
perplexed, and Tom looked for healing pity. But when she got her tongue
again she only said, "'Oomph!' Well, you didn't get a lick amiss, I
reckon. You've been into some other odashes, mischief, when I wasn't
round like enough.' Then her conscience reproached her, and she yearned
to say something kind and loving, but she judged that this would be
construed into a confession that she had been in the wrong, and
disciplined for bad that. So she kept silence, and went about her
affairs with a troubled heart. Tom sulked in a corner and exalted his
woes. He knew that in her heart his aunt was on her knees to him, and
he was morosely gratified by the consciousness of it. He would hang out
with no signals. He would take notice of none. He knew that a yearning
glance fell upon him now and then through a film of tears, but he
refused recognition of it. He pictured himself lying sick unto death,
and his aunt bending over him, beseeching one little forgiving word,
but he would turn his face to the wall and die with that word unsaid.
Ah, how would she feel then? And he pictured himself brought home from
the river, dead, with his curls all wet and his sore heart at rest. How
she would throw herself upon him, and how her tears would fall like
rain, and her lips pray God to give her back her boy, and she would
never, never abuse him any more. But he would lie there, cold and white
and make no sign, a poor little sufferer whose griefs were at an end.
He so worked upon his feelings with the pathos of these dreams that he
had to keep swallowing. He was so like to choke. And his eyes swam in a
blur of water which overflowed when he winked, and ran down and trickled
from the end of his nose. And such a luxury to him was this petting of
his sorrows that he could not bear to have any worldly cheeriness or
any grating delight intrude upon it. It was too sacred for such contact.
And so, presently, when his cousin Mary danced in, all alive with the
joy of seeing home again after an age-long visit of one week to the
country, he got up and moved in clouds and darkness out at one door as
she brought song and sunshine in at the other.
He wandered far from the accustomed haunts of boys, and sought desolate
places that were in harmony with his spirit. A log raft in the river
invited him, and he seated himself on its outer edge, and contemplated
the dreary vastness of the stream, wishing the while that he could only
at once and unconsciously, without undergoing the uncomfortable routine
devised by nature. Then he thought of his flower. He got it out, rumpled
and wilted, and it mightily increased his dismal felicity. He wondered
if she would pity him if she knew. Would she cry, and wish that she had
a right to put her arms round his neck and comfort him? Or would she
turn coldly away like all the hollow world? This picture brought such
an agony of pleasurable suffering that he worked it over and over again
in his mind, and set it up in new and varied lights till he wore it
threadbare. At last he rose up, sighing, and departed in the darkness.
About half-past nine or ten o'clock he came along the deserted street
to where the adored unknown lived. He paused a moment. No sound fell
upon his listening ear. A candle was casting a dull glow upon the
curtain of a second-story window. Was the sacred presence there? He
climbed the fence, threaded his stealthy way through the plants till
he stood under that window. He looked up at it long and with emotion.
Then he laid him down on the ground under it, disposing himself upon
his back, with his hands clasped upon his breast and holding his poor
wilted flower. And thus he would die, out in the cold world, with no
shelter over his homeless head, no friendly hand to wipe the death
lamps from his brow, no loving face to bend pittingly over him when the
great agony came. And thus she would see him when she looked out upon
the glad morning, and, oh, would she drop one little tear upon his poor
lifeless form, would she heave one little sigh to see a bright young
life so rudely blighted, so untimely cut down. The window went up, a
maid-servant's discordant voice profaned the holy calm, and a deluge of
water drenched the prone martyr's remains. The strangling hero sprang up
with a relieving snort. There was a whiz as of a missile in the air,
mingled with a murmur of a curse, a sound as of shivering glass followed,
and a small vague form went over the fence and shot away in the gloom.
Not long after, as Tom, all undressed for bed, was surveying his
drenched garments by the light of a tallow-dip, Sid woke up. But if he
had any dim idea of making any references to illusions, he thought
better of it and held his peace, for there was danger in Tom's eye. Tom
turned in without the added vexation of prayers, and Sid made mental
note of the admission.
CHAPTER IV.
SHOWING OFF IN SUNDAY SCHOOL.
The sun rose upon a tranquil world and beamed down upon the peaceful
village like a benediction. Breakfast over, Aunt Polly had family
worship. It began with a prayer built from the ground up of solid
courses of scriptural quotations, welded together with a thin mortar of
originality. And from the summit of this she delivered a grim chapter
of the Mosaic Law, as from Sinai. Then Tom girded up his loins, so to
speak, and went to work to get his verses. Sid had learned his lesson
days before. Tom bent all his energies to the memorizing of five
verses, and he chose part of the Sermon on the Mount, because he could
find no verses that were shorter. At the end of half an hour Tom had a
vague general idea of his lesson, but no more, for his mind was
traversing the whole field of human thought, and his hands were busy
with distracting recreations. Mary took his book to hear him recite,
and he tried to find his way through the fog.
Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for
they theirs. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom
of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they, oh, I don't know
what it is, shall, oh, shall, for they shall mourn. Blessed are they
that mourn, for they shall, uh, shall what? Why don't you tell me,
Mary? What do you want to be so mean for? Oh, Tom, you poor thick-headed
thing, I'm not teasing you, I wouldn't do that. You must go and learn
it again. Don't you be discouraged, Tom, you'll manage it, and if you do
I'll give you something ever so nice. There, now, that's a good boy.
All right, what is it, Mary? Tell me what it is. Never you mind, Tom,
you know if I say it's nice, it is nice. You bet you that's so, Mary,
all right, I'll tackle it again. And he did tackle it again, and under
the double pressure of curiosity and perspective gain, he did it with
such spirit that he accomplished a shining success. Mary gave him a
brand-new Barlow knife worth twelve and a half cents, and the
convulsion of delight that swept his system shook him to his
foundations. True, the knife would not cut anything, but it was a sure
enough Barlow, and there was inconceivable grandeur in that, though
where the Western boys ever got the idea that such a weapon could
possibly be counterfeited to its injury is an imposing mystery and will
always remain so, perhaps. Tom contrived to scarify the cupboard with
it, and was arranging to begin on the bureau, when he was called off to
dress for Sunday school.
Mary gave him a tin basin of water and a piece of soap, and he went
outside the door and set the basin on a little bench there. Then he
dipped the soap in the water and laid it down, turned up his sleeves,
poured out the water on the ground gently, and then entered the kitchen
and began to wipe his face diligently on the towel behind the door. But
Mary removed the towel and said,
"'Now ain't you ashamed, Tom? You mustn't be so bad. Water won't hurt
you.' Tom was a trifle disconcerted. The basin was refilled, and this
time he stood over it a little while, gathering resolution, took in a
big breath, and began. When he entered the kitchen presently, with both
eyes shut and groping for the towel with his hands, an honourable
testimony of suds and water was dripping from his face. But when he
emerged from the towel he was not yet satisfactory, for the clean
territory stopped short at his chin and his jaws like a mask. Below
and beyond this line there was a dark expanse of unirrigated soil that
spread downward in front and backward around his neck. Mary took him in
hand, and when she was done with him he was a man and a brother without
distinction of colour, and his saturated hair was neatly brushed and its
short curls wrought into a dainty and symmetrical general effect. He
privately smoothed out the curls with labour and difficulty and
plastered his hair close down to his head, for he held curls to be
effeminate, and his own filled his life with bitterness. Then Mary got
out a suit of his clothing that had been used only on Sundays during two
years. They were simply called his other clothes, and so by that we know
the size of his wardrobe. The girl put him to rights after he had dressed
himself, she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin, turned his
vast shirt collar down over his shoulders, brushed him off and crowned
him with his speckled straw hat. He now looked exceedingly improved and
uncomfortable. He was fully as uncomfortable as he looked, for there was
a restraint about whole clothes and cleanliness that galled him. He
hoped that Mary would forget his shoes, but the hope was blighted. She
coated them thoroughly with tallow, as was the custom, and brought them
out. He lost his temper and said he was always being made to do
everything he didn't want to do, but Mary said persuasively,
"'Please, Tom, that's a good boy.' So he got into the shoes, snarling.
Mary was soon ready, and the three children set out for Sunday school,
a place that Tom hated with his whole heart, but Sid and Mary were fond
of. Sabbath school hours were from nine to half-past ten, and then
church service. Two of the children always remained for the sermon
voluntarily, and the other always remained too, for stronger reasons.
The church's high-backed, uncushioned pews would seat about three
hundred persons. The edifice was but a small plain affair, with a sort
pine-bored tree-box on top of it, for a steeple. At the door, Tom
dropped back a step and accosted a Sunday-dressed comrade.
"'Say, Billy, got a yaller ticket?'
"'Yes.'
"'Well, you take for her.'
"'Well, you give.'
"'Piece of licorice and a fish-hook. Let's see them.'
Tom exhibited. They were satisfactory, and the property changed hands.
Then Tom traded a couple of white alleys for three red tickets, and
some small trifle or other for a couple of blue ones.
He waylaid other boys as they came, and went on buying tickets of
various colors ten or fifteen minutes longer. He entered the church,
now with a swarm of clean and noisy boys and girls, proceeded to his
seat, and started a quarrel with the first boy that came handy. The
teacher, a grave elderly man, interfered, then turned his back a
moment, and Tom pulled a boy's hair in the next bench, and was
absorbed in his book when the boy turned round. Stuck a pin in another
boy presently in order to hear him say, Ouch!, and got a new reprimand
from his teacher. Tom's whole class were of a pattern, restless, noisy,
and troublesome. When they came to recite their lessons, not one of
them knew his verses perfectly, but had to be prompted all along.
However, they worried through, and each got his reward in small blue
tickets, each with a passage of scripture on it. Each blue ticket was
two verses of the recitation. Ten blue tickets equaled a red one, and
could be exchanged for it. Ten red tickets equaled a yellow one. For
ten yellow tickets the superintendent gave a very plainly bound Bible
worth forty cents in those easy days to the pupil. How many of my
readers would have the industry and application to memorize two thousand
verses even for a Doray Bible, and yet Mary had acquired two Bibles in
this way? It was the patient work of two years, and a boy of German
parentage had won four or five. He once recited three thousand verses
without stopping. But the strain upon his mental faculties was too
great, and he was little better than an idiot from that day forth. A
grievous misfortune for the school, for on great occasions before
company the superintendent, as Tom expressed it, had always made this
boy come out and spread himself. Only the older pupils managed to keep
their tickets and stick to their tedious work long enough to get a
Bible, and so the delivery of one of these prizes was a rare and
noteworthy circumstance. The successful pupil was so great and
conspicuous for that day that on the spot every scholar's heart was
fired with a fresh ambition that often lasted a couple of weeks. It is
possible that Tom's mental stomach had never really hungered for one
of those prizes. But unquestionably his entire being had for many a
day longed for the glory and the eclat that came with it. In due course
the superintendent stood up in front of the pulpit with a closed hymn
book in his hand, and his forefinger inserted between its leaves, and
commanded attention. When a Sunday school superintendent makes his
customary little speech, a hymn book in the hand is as necessary as is
the inevitable sheet of music in the hand of a singer who stands
forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert. Though why is a
mystery, for neither the hymn book nor the sheet of music is ever
referred to by the sufferer. This superintendent was a slim creature of
thirty-five, with a sandy goatee and short sandy hair. He wore a stiff
standing collar whose upper edge almost reached his ears, and whose
sharp points curved forward abreast the corners of his mouth, a fence
that compelled a straight look out ahead and a turning of the whole body
when a side view was required. His chin was propped on a spreading
cravat which was as broad and as long as a bank-note, and had fringed
ends. His boot-toes were turned sharply up, in the fashion of the day,
like sleigh-runners, an effect patiently and laboriously produced by
the young men by sitting with their toes pressed against a wall for
hours together. Mr. Walters was very earnest of mien, and very sincere
and honest at heart. And he held sacred things and places in such
reverence, and so separated them from worldly matters, that unconsciously
to himself his Sunday-school voice had acquired a peculiar intonation,
which was wholly absent on week-days. He began after this fashion,
"'Now, children, I want you all to sit up just as straight and pretty as
you can, and give me all your attention for a minute or two. There,
that is it. That is the way good little boys and girls should do. I see
one little girl who is looking out of the window. I am afraid she thinks
I am out there somewhere, perhaps up in one of the trees making a speech
to the little birds.' A plosive titter.
"'I want to tell you how good it makes me feel to see so many bright
clean little faces assembled in a place like this, learning to do right
and be good,' and so forth and so on. It is not necessary to set down
the rest of the oration. It was of a pattern which does not vary, and so
it is familiar to us all. The latter third of the speech was marred by
the resumption of fights and other recreations among certain of the bad
boys, and by fidgetings and whisperings that extended far and wide,
washing even to the bases of isolated and incorruptible rocks like Sid
and Mary. But now every sound ceased suddenly, with the subsidence of
Mr. Walter's voice and the conclusion of the speech was received with a
burst of silent gratitude. A good part of the whispering had been
occasioned by an event which was more or less rare—the entrance of
visitors, lawyer Thatcher, accompanied by a very feeble and aged man, a
fine, portly middle-aged gentleman with iron-grey hair, and a dignified
lady who was doubtless the latter's wife. The lady was leading a child.
Tom had been restless and full of chaffings and repinings, conscience
smitten too—he could not meet Amy Lawrence's eye—he could not brook
her loving gaze. But when he saw this small newcomer his soul was all
ablaze with bliss in a moment. The next moment he was showing off with
all his might, cuffing boys, pulling hair, making faces—in a word,
using every art that seemed likely to fascinate a girl and win her
applause. His exultations had but one alloy—the memory of his
humiliation in this angel's garden—and that record in sand was fast
washing out under the waves of happiness that were sweeping over it
now. The visitors were given the highest seat of honour, and as soon as
Mr. Walter's speech was finished he introduced them to the school. The
middle-aged man turned out to be a prodigious personage, no less a one
than the county judge, altogether the most august creation these
children had ever looked upon, and they wondered what kind of material
he was made of, and they half wanted to hear him roar, and were half
afraid he might too. He was from Constantinople, twelve miles away, so
he had travelled, and seen the world. These very eyes had looked upon
the county courthouse, which was said to have a tin roof. The awe which
these reflections inspired was attested by the impressive silences and
the ranks of staring eyes. This was the great Judge Thatcher, brother of
their own lawyer. Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward to be familiar
with the great man, and be envied by the school. It would have been
music to his soul to hear the whisperings,
"'Look at him, Jim, he's a-goin' up there. Say, look, he's a-goin' to
shake hands with him. He is shakin' hands with him. By jinx, don't you
wish you was Jeff?' Mr. Walters fell to showing off, with all sorts of
official bustlings and activities, giving orders and delivering judgments,
discharging directions here, there, everywhere, that he could find a
target. The librarian showed off, running hither and thither with his
arms full of books, and making a deal of the splutter and fuss that
insect authority delights in. The young lady-teacher showed off, bending
sweetly over pupils that were lately being boxed, lifting pretty warning
fingers at bad little boys, and patting good ones lovingly. The young
gentleman-teachers showed off with small scoldings and other little
displays of authority and fine attention to discipline, and most of the
teachers of both sexes found business up at the library by the pulpit.
And it was business that frequently had to be done over again two or
three times, with much seeming vexation. The little girls showed off in
various ways, and the little boys showed off with such diligence that
the air was thick with paper wads and the murmur of scuffling. And above
it all the great man sat and beamed a majestic judicial smile upon all
the house, and warmed himself in the sun of his own grandeur, for he was
showing off, too.
There was only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters' ecstasy complete,
and that was a chance to deliver a Bible prize and exhibit a prodigy.
Several pupils had a few yellow tickets, but none had enough, and he had
been around among the star pupils inquiring. He would have given worlds
now to have that German lad back again with a sound mind. And now at this
moment, when hope was dead, Tom Sawyer came forward with nine yellow
tickets, nine red tickets, and ten blue ones, and demanded a Bible. This
was a thunderbolt out of a clear sky. Walters was not expecting an
application from this source for the next ten years, but there was no
getting around it. Here were the certified checks, and they were good
for their face. Tom was therefore elevated to a place with a judge and
the other elect, and the great news was announced from headquarters. It
was the most stunning surprise of the decade, and so profound was the
sensation that it lifted the new hero up to the judicial one's altitude,
and the school had two marvels to gaze upon in place of one. The boys
were all eaten up with envy, and those that suffered the bitterest pangs
were those who perceived too late that they themselves had contributed to
this hated splendour by trading tickets to Tom for the wealth he had
amassed in selling whitewashing privileges. These despised themselves as
being the dupes of a wily fraud, a guileful snake in the grass. The
prize was delivered to Tom with as much effusion as the superintendent
could pump up under the circumstances, but it lacked somewhat of the
true gush, for the poor fellow's instinct taught him that there was a
mystery here that could not well bear the light, perhaps. It was simply
preposterous that this boy had warehoused two thousand sheaves of
scriptural wisdom on his premises. A dozen would strain his capacity
without a doubt. Amy Lawrence was proud and glad, and she tried to make
Tom see it in her face, but he wouldn't look. She wondered. Then she was
just a grain troubled. Next a dim suspicion came and went, came again.
She watched, a furtive glance told her worlds, and then her heart broke,
and she was jealous, and angry, and the tears came, and she hated
everybody. Tom, most of all, she thought. Tom was introduced to the
judge, but his tongue was tied, his breath would hardly come, his heart
quaked, partly because of the awful greatness of the man, but mainly
because he was her parent. He would have liked to fall down and worship
him if it were in the dark. The judge put his hand on Tom's head and
called him a fine little man, and asked him what his name was. The boy
stammered, gasped, and got it out.
Tom.
Oh, no, not Tom. It is—
Thomas.
Ah, that's it. I thought there was more to it, maybe. That's very well.
But you've another one, I dare say. And you'll tell it to me, won't you?
Tell the gentleman your other name, Thomas, said Walters, and say Sir—you
mustn't forget your manners—Thomas Sawyer, Sir. That's it. That's a
good boy. Fine, boy, fine manly little fellow. Two thousand verses is a
great many, very, very great many, and you never can be sorry for the
trouble you took to learn them. For knowledge is worth more than
anything there is in the world. It's what makes great men and good men.
You'll be a great man and a good man yourself some day, Thomas, and then
you'll look back and say, it's all owing to the precious Sunday school
privileges of my boyhood. It's all owing to my dear teachers that taught
me to learn. It's all owing to the good superintendent who encouraged me
and watched over me and gave me a beautiful Bible—a splendid, elegant
Bible to keep and have it all for my own, always. It's all owing to right
That is what you will say, Thomas, and you wouldn't take any money for
those two thousand verses, no, indeed you wouldn't. And now you wouldn't
mind telling me and this lady some of the things you've learned. No, I
know you wouldn't, for we are proud of little boys that learn. Now, no
doubt you know the names of all the twelve disciples. Won't you tell us
the names of the first two that were appointed?
Tom was tugging at a button-hole and looking sheepish. He blushed now,
and his eyes fell. Mr. Walter's heart sank within him. He said to
himself, it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplest
question. Why did the judge ask him? Yet he felt obliged to speak up
and say,
"'Answer the gentleman, Thomas. Don't be afraid.' Tom still hung fire.
Now I know you'll tell me,' said the lady. The names of the first two
disciples were David and Goliath.
Let us draw the curtain of charity over the rest of the scene. End of
Chapter 4